welcome everybody to another phenomenal
edition of Facebook live Q&A I am your
host Tom bill you and I'm here with the
voice of the community hello everyone
what is up not much we have a lot of
exciting things going on in the
community right now word yeah so we have
two official impact Theory events one
that's going to be in London August 28th
which means that I'm going to be in
London important to keep reminding
myself of that yellow be in London is
your mine I forget but we'll make sure
he gets on the plane and he's over there
and you get to meet you guys um and then
we have one August 16th in downtown LA
which you'll also be at because I made
sure to block it on your schedule okay
so all the impact of us in the LA area
Tom will be making a special appearance
at this impact hour and then we also
launched our impact to this club the
first round of guys
London Toronto Chicago Lane Seattle and
Berlin what exactly is the impact so the
impact of this club is our for fans by
fans event series um it's basically like
our version of The Mickey Mouse Club
it's the official impact Theory fan club
completely fan run but of course guided
by our principles so they'll be
check-ins will you know if you grow to a
certain size you might be able to win
the prize of having the impact theory
team come visit and are even bigger than
that or you host an event that just
totally smashes Tom will show up so
there are going to be a lots of like
special goodies that will be rolling out
and these chapters will also as they
start to begin we'll send them special
like custom swag how do ya respect oh
I'm very excited about this initiative
yes yeah so it's in total beta mode so
it's going to be a lot of learnings when
I'm really excited about the people that
we've found to hop on board amazing yeah
very cool exciting times yeah and then
from the store aspect we've got a
special limited edition graphic tee Oh
completely abstracted is one thing I
haven't seen that yet there it is a
stove so it's going to be up on the
store for like 10 days I don't know
where I'm waving it at the camera this
one great so we've got that and then we
also have tank top version for women
nice um so yeah check it out giving me
limited edition 10 days so just hop over
to shop it impact weight shop dot impact
very calm to check it out all right
yeah it's adding value please do share
okay now truly without further ado okay
so this question actually came in
through the impact be relief so I had a
question of the day which is centered
around what is something or someone you
miss from your childhood and one of our
fans Dean he wanted to know Kazee misses
his a father and his dog and so he
wanted to know how to work through loss
in grief he says these losses are much
harder to recover than that from than
any failure so what are kind of the
actionable steps that he can put into
practice yeah so I will be honest that
this isn't something that I've thought a
lot about so I will start by pointing
you in the direction of a lot of amazing
work has been done around the topics of
grief the thing that I would focus on
and the thing that I've used in my own
life is the predictability of the phases
that you're going to go through so
researching that understanding it
knowing what they are not trying to
avoid them but rather to process them in
a meaningful way I think is very much
the right answer and there's you know
look there's going to be individual
variants on this stuff but there really
are some fascinatingly Universal moments
in that emotional journey so discovering
what those are being very aware of what
they are and just accepting that there's
really no way and it's probably not even
advisable to try to not go through them
so accepting that that loss really is
crushing that it's as stated way more
difficult to deal with than a failure
which I mean
grand scheme they almost don't seem like
the same thing you know like the the
level of intensity is so so very
different and the permanence that's the
hard part about loss is just like that
the permanence of it is very very
difficult to deal with so yeah I would
say go leverage the knowledge that we
have at this point about that very
predictable cycle and then the one thing
that I've used it might be really
helpful for everybody out there is the
notion that this too shall pass and the
intensity of that emotion is going to
dissipate over time and focusing on
things like what you are grateful for
and their life and not just that sense
of loss but what they brought to you and
being able to celebrate that and remind
yourself of the positive things is is
nice and then if there's somebody that's
sharing in that loss with you that can
be wildly comforting to share that and
then don't stifle your emotions so that
was something and since he brought up
the dog and that has been for better or
worse who's way harder for me to lose my
dog than it was for me to even lose my
grandparents I know that's that may be
perceived as horrible but hopefully
people understand it's just the level of
closeness so when my wife and I lost you
know what we look at is our first child
I didn't expect it to be devastating and
it was and that was really really
surprising and so having her there to be
able to share that grief and go through
that together was meaningful yeah and I
also just in terms of loss like I feel
like I haven't really dealt with a lot
of loss in that like permanent kind of
sense because they didn't have pets
growing up I had some fish but like I
never had like this emotional attachment
to them and I like bought them at a
target and did really expect them to
live very long but you know like I don't
know and so I I think like one of the
first times I think I was really
confronted with this idea of loss was
when I went to my grandfather's funeral
but the interesting thing about it is
like some of the traditions around
like grieving and lost in Nigerian
culture are so focused on celebrating
that it almost didn't feel like he had
died is there like a traditional funeral
where you're there and actively bury the
person yeah so like he was there I
remember I'm seeing the the open casket
and everything but you know there was
like a lot of musics all the stories
being told it was supposed to be like
yes my I saw my grandmother crying and I
saw you know my like all the sons like
wearing a particular outfit and all
those things but at the same time they
were so focused on the socks it he had
grandchildren and great-grandchildren
that were there you know like look at
all the families come to like celebrate
his life and all the people telling the
stories of you know the great things he
had done for like within his lifetime
and the fact that he has a legacy to
leave and all these things that for me I
like was really cool to see because it
didn't feel sad and maybe it was because
I was so young too that I didn't
register it super sad and I hadn't
really known him that well but it just
it made me feel honored to like know a
man so well loved by so many people so
that's kind of how I think of lost a lot
of times is I I do come from a place of
like gratitude and celebration and all
that and you know I've since lost like
other grandparents but at the same time
like I know that it's about like the
amazing things that they had done and
not necessarily the focusing on the
sadness for too long thank you still
process through those feelings but it's
definitely more centered around
gratitude here we folks huh yeah it's
true so hopefully that helps Dean our
next question comes from Jamil through
the connect inbox how can I build a
solid clear and actionable vision okay
well that really starts with asking and
answering the question what is my end
goal so how do we get to that how do we
decide what our end goal is going to be
first of all we need to understand that
it's a decision and not something that
you're going to turn inward and see this
big secret thing that's been hiding
within you somehow forever and you just
never noticed so you look inward you
find an area of interest then through
the process of gaining mastery you're
going to find out whether that area of
interest is something that you get into
so much that you're going to be willing
to continue to push to develop grit to
keep going long after it gets boring and
hard whether that's going to be one of
those things you really want to develop
into something and I think exposure to a
lot of different things is really really
critical maybe even critical just to
developing the little flickers of
interest and that encountering a wide
array of things is is really really
important so if you turn inward and
literally see like virtually nothing
then exposure becomes your number one
thing you have to overcome and so just
getting out there encountering ideas
encountering new things and it may be as
simple as you know what are things that
you see out in the world that people are
deeply passionate about so if that's an
activity hiking skiing like whatever the
case may be or if it's reading like what
are tried-and-true things what is what
have humans been doing for a thousand
years you know things like that reading
storytelling like on and on
physical exercise sports and getting
into it touching a lot of it not sort of
dipping into one thing like if you were
to do say kite surfing and go I don't
like athletics right that's such a like
specific thing so trying a bunch of
different things to find out what that
thing is that picture curiosity that
interest reading what are other people
passionate about and then going in and
seeing like if you're interested in that
I think that exposure is probably the
most critical thing and then once you
find some things that really do have
some level of interest to you then it's
you know going back to that process of
mastery but that's ultimately you're
trying to do all of that because you
need a hyper specific goal so and I find
that that the hyper specificity of the
goal is where people fall down because
they
ever push themselves to get beyond an
outcome so it's always like let's take a
really easy obvious one I want to be
rich great and I used to say that and I
can tell you from firsthand experience
how dangerous that is in its vagaries
because now I'm still on a path to
generating more wealth in my life but I
realized that a it has to be in a hyper
specific way and be that hyper specific
way needs to be driven by a mission and
needs to be driven by something that's
bigger than you that you're more excited
about I can't remember if yesterday was
the first time I ever said to the whole
team here that I actually don't care
enough about filmmaking storytelling any
of that to work as hard as I'm working
but hey I love it I just don't love it
enough to do what it's going to take to
get across the finish line but I care
like so much about pulling people out of
the matrix I get such a natural like
chemical rush and I care about it just
from an ideological standpoint to help
people get out of a limiting mindset
like that is so interesting to me that
building a Studios like small potatoes
compared to how much I really give a
about that so once you know like
that level of what is it that really
turns me on what is it that really gets
me excited what do I respond to what
have I found the flames on to really
like get where you focus on right so I
focused on for years and years and years
like wanting to help people wanting to
pull them out of the matrix and then
working backwards to the studio through
what do I think is actually the most
efficient way to do that so when you
have that level of specificity then you
can start unwinding like what are the
steps that it's going to take to get to
that but the vision the vision is really
in my opinion the specific steps that it
takes to accurately reach your goal so
and there's admittedly some what I'll
call business acumen even though the
thing you may want to be great at may
not have anything to do with business
but that ability to to deconstruct into
very executable steps to me is sort of
the business mindset but that's what
people ultimately need to do so the
vision isn't just the sort of end goal
of this is what I want to do it's all of
the the steps that lead up to it
and just like Matt Davis wrote in about
being a linchpin employee would you
attack 'el tackles that set of skills in
the same way so he right now he works in
K through 12 private schools he's
learning to do business analysis the
skill set he says that he doesn't think
the company he works for currently
doesn't need he's like NIT tech service
and I'm trying to paraphrase it so he
wants to know if there's a roadmap from
the skilled employees to a linchpin and
from those who have a why what really
makes a difference when you need to
buckle down okay so those feel like very
different questions so let's start with
the linchpin being a linchpin employee
really is about a an attitude I would
say even more than a skillset now the
skills that becomes important and you've
got to do exactly what we're just
talking about identify what are you
really trying to do for the company and
I'll say in a company rather than sort
of that grand vision oftentimes it's
what is the very specific problem in the
business that needs to be solved our
marketing isn't good enough we have a
cultural problem like whatever that is a
linchpin employee to me is somebody that
looks beyond the definition of their job
and into what is the company actually
need and then they make sure that they
are able to address that now I think
that obviously you're hired in the
company to do something so you need to
be taking care of that very specific
role as well so I talked about your job
description is your tuition that's the
way that you get in that's the way that
you are you know literally like a
university you're paying your tuition
but really at the end of the day you're
there to do something and learn
something bigger than that anybody that
owns the company and this sadly is not
true of all managers but anybody that
owns the company they're so hungry for
the right answer because so much is on
the line for them that if you can solve
problems in the business they're going
to be responsive to that so identifying
what the what the problems are the face
the business making sure that they're
sort of pull it
uncle will behind those problems because
not every problem is going to have that
political will especially not up and
down the chain so identifying one where
it is a real problem for the business
and the business is already acknowledged
we want to solve this problem you take
care of your tuition by doing a job well
and then you begin to address those so
there may be a skill set in there that
you don't necessarily already have the
problem demands that you develop that
skill set I would get as much buying as
you can letting people know like hey I'm
like I would actually communicate to
people I am now and a simple way is to
say hey either I read Seth Godin book or
I heard Tom talking about this notion of
being a linchpin I want to be a linchpin
I really want to take my career really
seriously and by that I mean that
internally it gives me a sense of
progress it gives me a sense that I'm
able to push myself and accomplish
things that other people aren't willing
to do to really maximize my human
potential so hey everybody that will
listen that's what I'm doing and I'm
going to be clicking over into that and
so because of that I'd really love to
get some feedback what are things that
we want to accomplish what are problems
that we're trying to solve and then say
I'm going to take this one and then I'd
love feedback on my execution of that
and really just make it known so I
forget what company it was but the CFO
that was that quest when I was there he
said at the company that he worked for
previous was a top I think it was a
fortune 50 company to be sure he said
that they actually make you identify
what track you're on in the company and
there were I think three different
tracks so and these are certainly the
tracks that I have in my mind I think
all three were present as this company
but it's essentially linchpin though I
think it went under a different name a
linchpin employee which if you're a
lynchpin you're in what they call up or
out so you either move up in the company
and you're always progressing or you get
out
or maybe he only had two the other one
was a continuity player so you have your
people that are on the upper out track
and then you have people that are
continuity players and continuity meant
and you're going to get sort of your
three to five percent
year-over-year raise exactly but you may
never move in your actual role so your
title is sort of what it was the the day
that you got in and and then that's it
and it was fascinating to me that they
actually make people choose and say I'm
either up or out or I'm a continuity
player and that the expectations of you
became very very different so
communicating that to people and letting
them know whether your company has those
tracks or not but letting people know
how they should be thinking of you how
they should turn to you it just really
helps people understand you and what
you're trying to do in the company so
that's that's lynchpin the other part
was remind me uh it was just kind of
like what would the roadmap be firm
going from a skilled employee to a
linchpin what skills would help push you
over the line or is it just simply
related there was a second dinner um so
you know if you have your y-y-ya if you
have your y1 that we are learning like
how do you know how do we buckle down
how do we buckle down because ooh the
wife
yeah so this is one of those questions
that if you're asking that question you
probably don't have the right why right
it doesn't light you on fire and so this
comes down to the notion of a compelling
future how excited are you
like when I'm fatigued I need only think
about what I'm actually doing which is
right now there's some person man woman
child to me it's somewhat irrelevant who
feels lost they feel they could do more
their life could be more and I really
believe that if I can get my message to
them that the not only will their life
be better but that there's a shot that
they end up becoming somebody who really
influences the fabric of our culture and
so that to me is very interesting that I
can not only make their life better but
that I can make the world a better place
by helping people get rid of the
limiting beliefs and then realize that
they can do something extraordinary that
is so interesting to me like you don't
have to convince me that it's
interesting it just is
interesting to me to think that humans
can have that kind of impact and that
is a switch that you have to flip so I
got to forget who said this I think it
was Naveen Jane it wasn't being Jane and
he said don't worry about leading a
horse to water just worry about making
them thirsty I want to make people
thirsty
I want people like to just be insanely
excited for what they're trying to
accomplish in their life and so if
you're not then chances are that thing
you're trying to do that you've decided
is your mission it may not be exciting
enough for you so that's the the real
thing is start with an area of interest
go down the path of gaining mastery and
fan those flames so it wasn't like oh
the day that I encountered rashon which
was my first sort of glimpse into
getting someone out of the matrix when I
first started mentoring rashon it it
didn't seem like oh this will become
something really important to me and
then when that had run its course I
could feel like I've been changed by
this but it still wasn't like a mission
in my life so it wasn't until like a
bunch of things begin to stack up which
I'll call the path to mastery in that
though it was very unintentional at
first but then one day I decided this is
going to be my thing and then once you
decide then it's like you really fan
those flames you focus on it you
encourage that in yourself you reward
yourself emotionally for being true to
that and then like it begins to take on
a life of its own because you give
yourself so much positive reinforcement
for doing that thing but at the end of
the day it starts with a decision
absolutely well so this next question
comes from Daniel Brees in the comments
so Tom I found it really interesting
that you don't consider yourself highly
neurotic considering the morning routine
you have and how much structured
discipline you have in your life can you
talk about the statement you once made
that the beauty of having your brain is
everything seems like a surprise I don't
remember ever saying I came home in a
daze but I will say that I've been
waiting for somebody to call me out on
that because my behavior would make you
think that I especially with the routine
would make you think that I'm neurotic
but in truth I'm goal-oriented and
understanding what I mean when I say
that I'm goal-oriented is probably the
most important thing to understand about
me and you want to have a relationship
with me because all of my behavior will
seem very weird and certainly
counterintuitive to things that are sort
of naturally in my personality but once
you understand that to me
achieving your goals is like the purpose
of life and that at the end of the day I
do and believe that which my goals
demand of me so because I'm lazy by
Nature I've realized that I need to do
something to get over that identity is a
huge part of that huge part of that
but on a day to day basis I need like
momentum to carry me away so my habits
are essentially the this is Inchon
realizing this in real time the way that
people use email I use habits I use
routine is probably a better way to say
that so the reason people like email is
you don't have to think so open your
email box and react that's it so for me
it's the same thing all I have to do to
start this wildly empowering routine to
make sure that I'm doing the right
things at all times is go to bed at 9:00
p.m. everything else happens
automatically so I go to bed at 9:00
p.m. I do not have an alarm set I wake
up when I wake up no one has to tell me
to wake up right so I'm going to wake up
when I wake up and then like last night
I have rules and those rules begin to
trigger so I woke up just before 1:00
a.m. I'm sorry what
so I literally I was and I went to bed
at like 1:00 and I the funny thing is I
thought of that I was like so many
people right now were just going to bed
woke up at 1:00 a.m. but I have a rule
if I've gotten less than five hours
sleep I will lay in bed forever try and
fall back asleep because I will not
function at a high cognitive level if I
don't end up operating at the highest
cognitive level possible is a good idea
so I knew if I if I get up and start
doing all my normal stuff like I'll get
through it but I won't get through it as
well so cognitive optimization for the
most part doesn't always Trump like
right some huge goal
something that was really important I
was just muscled through a bad cognitive
day to get things across the finish line
but this was not one of those days so
it's one o'clock I realize I'm gonna
really try to fall back asleep probably
takes me an hour maybe hour and a half
but I do fall back asleep I wake up
again just before 5:00 a.m. and I'm like
now I've gotten more than five hours
sleep so it's I have ten minutes to get
out of bed so I immediately get out of
bed I go straight to working out boom
and all the rest of the day is like
somebody going an email all I have to do
is react to the routine and the set of
rules that I have so I don't have to
think about anything there's no
cognitive load it's just right you go
work out meditate think it's a read
important things like that's it and then
I'm just in that loop so that is why I
say I'm a loner otic which is actually
why I have to have those things because
if I didn't I
there's nothing internal that would tell
me oh do this oh do that I do this so I
feel very similarly yeah
so hopefully that answers your question
you know and we have a couple shout outs
coming in from Leila from Wisconsin
Libby from Taiwan and a killer from
California yeah that global audience man
did it is I mean our first impact it was
clubs three out of the five of them are
international that's all so it is really
really cool all of us yeah so I'm
communicating across five time zones
good luck with that that's not easy yeah
all right so this next question comes
from Kathy Teresa she mentions that the
Jay Williams episode you say virtually
nobody talks about how they feel any
ideas on why we are like this and is
there anything we can do to change it
yeah it makes it makes you vulnerable so
when you're telling people how you
really feel if somebody says oh well
that's bad or stupid then people believe
then that they actually are bad or
stupid and so people spend a lot of time
a lot of time framing themselves trying
to convince themselves quite frankly and
of the people that they are a certain
way rather than saying I can change at
any time so
so if I do something and somebody says
oh that's bad or stupid you can reflect
and go is it really oh my gosh actually
it is this is bad meaning it doesn't
move me towards my goal stupid meaning
it doesn't move me towards my goal in my
opinion so you reassess and you go okay
cool I'm going to change my behavior and
since I don't pride myself on not I
don't pride myself on being smart
I don't pride myself on always doing the
right thing I pride myself on learning
and I pride myself in recognizing faster
than anybody else when I actually end
doing something that doesn't make sense
so if somebody points it out rather than
sit there and beat myself up because I
don't believe that I'm ever in a
permanent state right so any accusation
somebody throws of me like I can change
that so if I self assess and realize
they're actually right then I can just
change and go in a new direction but
when people don't believe that they
don't believe that they can change or
they're really worried like they're
they're a perceiver so they're always
like whatever you think about me then
that's what I actually perceive of
myself rather than like one of the
things I've worked really really hard on
is I have a vision of who I am
that is my compass and it other people
don't get to influence that so I run
against anything anybody says to me I
run against what I'm actually trying to
accomplish and so if they point out a
hole in my game then I change it but my
compass is my willingness to change so
that the the what you build yourself a
steam around becomes the just really
really critical part so people don't
want to say anything because they have
their on a scale or a spectrum of a
fixed mindset and they worry that if
they confess that and they get something
reflected back that they don't like that
it's now a permanent state of who they
are so one learning to divorce yourself
from what other people think like taking
it in and listening as a potential
guidepost but not letting other people's
view of you change your view of you
which is really hard to do but really
important to do yeah I mean I completely
agree I feel like yeah I was actually
having a conversation like that with my
sister recently just like centered
around confidence building confidence
because she's always thought of me is
the more confident one and I was trying
to figure out at what point in time in
the timeline of my life did that become
true because I would consider myself as
pretty confident but I think it's
because there's something that always
knows like Who I am and like what my
decisions like I'd guide by my gut and
how it feels and figure out what that
actually means and so like when
confronted with like similar to what
you're saying when confronted with
something that doesn't necessarily sit
well I'm like okay so what is so why am
i reacting to that and like what does
that mean and is this person saying it
out of like maliciousness or is it
actually a critique and I think having
worked a lot in creative spaces you
learn to take feedback and it's not
personal
it's you're creating something the
purpose of it is to do this does it do
that just because your creative
interpretation of it doesn't necessarily
you know move anyone towards that then
that means it sailed right and so what
are the things you need to do do to
change it like copywriting you've got to
figure out how to choose the right words
you know you know if you're you know and
I do a lot of copywriting for you like
trying to figure out how would Tom say
this and what makes sense and so you
know when you give me feedback words
like this isn't what I would say like
you change it and tweak it I learn from
that and so it doesn't mean that I'm a
bad writer and that's something I think
that is really important to distinguish
is trying to figure out when to take
that feedback in how word absolutely all
right so this one comes from gel to mask
oh I don't know it's and I might've
thought of masks Oh seems reasonable
yeah how do how to keep your company
thriving while there's national
financial crisis going on I know this
question sounds kind of broad but I'd
appreciate if you could share some
thoughts on that choose from Brazil
that's second give me content that helps
yeah knowing that it's Brazil that's
really really interesting but I will say
that the answer regardless of country
there's an amazing example from our boy
Walt Disney if you haven't read the
biography it will inspire the living
daylights out of you and if you don't
want to read his book but you want to
get a flavor you can always watch my
book review on it and the answer to your
question I go hard in that book review
about because what Disney did in times
of trouble
always and forever was the same thing
and he doubled triple quintupled down on
the product the product the product of
the product and he just made sure that
at all times it was the best in the
industry that there was nothing better
than him that any of his competitors in
animation if they were trying to
outmaneuver him some way or behind the
scenes trying to ruin him that he was
just an undeniable force when it came to
the final product and I think at the end
of the day that is so important and you
can put all the time and energy and
effort you want into being a slick
businessperson but dude if you've missed
the first and foremost like the markets
are really as first principles make sure
that your product is astounding make
sure it dazzles make sure it is
undeniably amazing so when I think about
all the content that we do it's like all
I'm thinking about does it actually pull
people out of the matrix or not and if
it does and it pulls people more people
more effectively than anything anyone
else is doing great then we're in the
right place but in times of trouble this
company will always double down on
making the product better period so
doesn't matter what's going on in the
world you have to take that seriously
from the perspective of the market is
speaking like in those times of trouble
there may be different things that they
consider valuable than at other times
and you need to be very realistic about
that so yeah don't over invest in a path
but really really invest in a product
that gets a result that's it and as a
reminder everyone if this feed is adding
value to your life please be sure to
share it and then also remember that we
just launched a limited edition graphic
tee on our store so check that out
I believe the link is in the
so check it out alright so this next
question comes from Stacey Lee Tom how
do you handle uncertainties up until now
I've always had a stable job with stable
income a few months ago I was laid off I
have been unsuccessful with finding a
job no matter how hard I work on
applying and reaching out to my friends
and network I'm not someone that makes
excuses it's just been really hard
lately and I feel very unmotivated as
it's been months of no results I'm
starting to feel useless and hopeless
what other options can I take this is
awesome
what a vulnerable question I am so
grateful for this you already know the
answer and it's going to be it's my
honor to be able to give you that answer
she already knows it so and the truth is
if you're not getting the result that
you want you're not doing the right
things period so I know you know that
because you don't make excuses which is
phenomenal and that's going to serve you
well and this is the moment that you've
been waiting for all the years that
you've spent building a mindset that
does not make excuses it was for this
moment so it is clearly hard it's harder
than you expected you thought the
techniques that you developed we're
going to work and they have not and what
that tells me is that definitively you
need a new strategy and you need to put
all of your energy into identifying
what's the strategy right now today
that's going to work and getting out
there going online finding what people
are talking about things that can work
that are working for people I'll use an
example so we interviewed Lewis Howes
yesterday he's going to his episode
doesn't launch for like a month and a
half or something but his story is
really really fascinating so here's this
guy he's broke broken on his sister's
couch does not know how to get a job
starts researching like ways to network
comes across the thing called LinkedIn
which was pretty new and he was doing it
becomes the master of LinkedIn right but
it's it's a totally new skillset for him
it is not what he thought he was going
to have to do but it was the thing that
he in all of the different things that
he was trying that was the one that
popped and there is a solution to this
problem there is I promise you so you
have to find that solution so I get it
all the things you thought we're going
to work failed you and that is that
really sucks and that's a
really hard place to be in and I'll just
I'll put us in the mix it is so very
real that all the things we think are
going to work right now to build the
studio virtually all of them will fail
okay I know that I know going into it
right I am not yet the man I need to be
in order to build the studio I know that
so in all of this you're constantly like
pushing everything as hard as you can
with who you are now and seeing where
does it all start to break and crumble
and then you just address those things
one by one so obviously not auditing our
situation I kind of tell you what
specific thing it is I don't know if
she's currently not good enough to
interviewing I don't know if her skill
set isn't right I don't know if on paper
she doesn't look good like this may be a
question you need to be donating your
time to update your skill set it might
be that it might be that your reference
is a weak it might be that the reference
that your old job is bad you don't
realize and so now every time you're
putting yourself out there and they call
the check on references they're actually
getting a bad answer there's so many
awesome stories of people doing things
like I'll give you one example like
really getting extreme to get a job oh
god watch the episode with Jay salmon
dammit
amazing it out there print by the way
they did it wrote to you yep well
deserved read his book he talks about
the links that he went to get a job when
he just couldn't get one and it was bad
economic times and he didn't know what
to do his story of going to the like end
to get a job are pretty spectacular so
in fact I won't bastardize it by trying
to paraphrase it go watch that episode
or read his book either one we talked
about it in the episode and he goes into
great detail in the book but is the
perfect example of truly truly not
making excuses going all the way to in
essence creating a fake company in order
to get a job and it yeah it's an amazing
story watch it watch it watch it right
and I mean part of it is just being able
to like humble yourself or like figure
out where those gaps are because for me
when I was job hunting when I was still
in like the New York area I thought my
resume was good like for what I was
doing I was trying to you know
enter into the marketing space like this
is great but it wasn't until I actually
sat down with someone who would be
essentially receiving my resume on the
other end and we broke it down line by
line so like the fact is she was able to
donate her time over some coffee to just
you know work with me because I was like
I want to be in this space I don't
understand why I still have it and I
keep getting all these other jobs and I
have all the different skills that it
says that I need to have and you know it
was just acting just being like open to
really brutal feedback like the whole
thing was marked up in red I was like so
grateful because after that I started
getting like you know jobs and more
people calling me back and all that kind
of stuff and I was just like it was
something that simple and it might not
be that for you but there could be
something else that's missing that you
need to reevaluate are you ready for
don't let me forget by the way because
she says that she's emotionally
distressed as well we need to address
that yes my dad went through a really
hard time where he could not get a job
and he began to suspect that it was age
discrimination so he dyed his hair he
got a job and I thought respect like if
that's what you need to do to manage the
impression that you're making then do it
and like you do what it takes right you
make changes and you adjust and look you
can say all day long that's disgusting
he shouldn't have to do that and you're
right but the fact is he did and it
worked and that's me
advocacy is all that matters if that's
what it requires you're dealing with
humans humans are weird and they
have like all these preconceived notions
and all this stuff but it's like once
you stop fighting like it shouldn't be
this way and you accept but it but it is
what I do
100% deal with the world the way that it
is not the way you wish it would be okay
one more time deal with the world the
way that it is not the way that you wish
it would be all right now to the
emotional side as somebody who doesn't
make excuses you've got to cut that
with haste like it will not serve you
and because it will not serve you you
cannot allow yourself to do it now I'm
giving you a peek inside my mind so I
get everything I'm about to say is going
to sound harsh just understand a
reminder I am so grateful for the very
vulnerable question that to me is a sign
of courage and is amazing
now this is how I internalize this stuff
will getting down help me get a job the
answer is unequivocably
no absolutely not I'm going to need a
lot of energy I'm going to need a
ton of optimism and optimism my friend
is a choice so I'm going to choose to be
optimistic the definition of success is
going from failure to failure to failure
without a loss of enthusiasm so I know
to get where I'm going I'm going to have
to remain making the decision to be
optimistic that it's going to work out
every time no matter how many times they
get rejected and failed no matter how
many new skills I have to go through the
back-breaking work of making my own I'm
going to stay optimistic I'm going to
stay upbeat I'm going to stay positive
because I know at the end of the day on
a really long timeline a really long
grueling brutal test those are the
people that end up winning and coming
out the other side it isn't it's never
the person that gives up it's never it's
never the person that gives up ever
never once so we know that simply
surviving the process is like the number
one so you need that energy enthusiasm
positivity to get through and if you
really want to almost startle the people
in your life and startle them in a way
that will so inspire them and so rock
them to their core during this process
always look at the positives now that
doesn't mean that you don't take an hour
to just cry your eyes out yeah
and like need to release it totally get
that but you I would literally give
myself a period of time if that's an
hour I have an hour and I would go
through whatever motion I need to and on
the other side of that I would
immediately again do the things that I
need to do that
no we're going to be efficient that are
actually going to work so you've got to
get rid of that mindset immediately fake
laugh out loud read books and
neuroanatomy like whatever you need to
do to get yourself back in a positive
and optimistic state but that is a must
that is a must remember don't ever ask
for sympathy expect empathy you should
be able to expect empathy from the
important people in your life and
hopefully they're giving it to you in
spades but don't ever ask for sympathy
and then as my voice Stephen Hawking
says when you complain no one wants to
help you so my rule of thumb is even
Hawking doesn't complain about anything
I'm not going to complain about anything
it's very valid it is agreed all right
this next question comes from Leila lids
seller currently working on my PhD which
I love but found after finishing my
master's thesis that I need activities
that do something rather than focusing
on theoretical over the summer I have
started a couple of side projects
they're really interesting but I need
new skills to make them great what
advice do you have do you have for
pulling for have you had for being
pulled in different directions by goals
and projects from which you have a lot
of passions so side projects super
passionate about PhD also passionate
about that needs to be doing more things
yeah
so the doing more things I'm going to
set aside for a second because the I
think the more interesting question in
here is how do you not fall prey to
having a bunch of interests so I will I
I hope people love this about me but
this is definitely something that walks
up to being a dick and my personality
and that is if I've done something I've
absolutely no sympathy for
somebody that can't do the same thing so
for almost 15 years I essentially turned
off the part of my brain that watches
movies TV shows reads books I've
averaged one book of fiction a year for
the
last it's got to be close to 15 years so
and I love fiction more than I can say
like reading a book every time I do it I
feel the same way that I feel when I'm
eating really really bad food like
delicious food but bad food and a part
of me goes every time what if you just
admit you're only going to live for 10
more years and you eat whatever you want
and you like literally just live in a
perpetual state of intoxication and
eating bad food like just just own it
it's going to kill you no question but
it's going to be really rad then I turn
that off and I remind myself of my
identity and what I'm trying to
accomplish and all that stuff but there
is a high degree of temptation just to
give in and say whatever so I have that
same feeling when I read a fiction book
that I just want to indulge I want to do
that and then I remember I have decided
my mission is X and I work backwards
from there everything has to live in
service of that and it has been so
exciting I almost tweeted out this
morning and I had too much other to
do so I stopped but I almost tweeted out
this morning I am so excited there are
two days of the week that I love more
than anything in the world
Fridays and Monday's because now that I
realize it actually serves my goal for
me to look more at fiction and really
get into pop culture and things it's
like a homecoming me I'm like so giddy
so the thought of like I never sent my
game my wife and I are going to watch so
many episodes of The Walking Dead this
week and it's going to be amazing and
all the while I'll have this congruent
feeling with I know that I'm moving
towards my goals so that's very exciting
I can't even begin to tell you but I
didn't do it for a very long time
because I live in service of my goals so
don't ever make up excuses
about oh I have so many passions so do i
but at the end of the day like you're
only going to be effective it actually -
I'm making an assumption and that
assumption is you want to play in a
world stage I am not the right person to
pay attention to if you have no interest
in being the greatest of all time I
can't serve you so if you want to play
in a world stage if you're prepared to
say to yourself you want to be the
greatest of all time
so you right now you're going to have to
shut the doors you walk into a room
there are nine hundred there's a
thousand doors let's be consistent you
walk into a room there are a thousand
doors your job is the shut 999 of them
and walk through one you can always walk
back at any time you want shut that door
and open a new one that's absolutely
fine but your job is to shut the other
doors and I will make the assumption
that some massive percentage of those
doors are deep and abiding passions for
you so let's just make it nice and hard
and you're going to decide which one
that you walk through based on what you
want to achieve in your life simple as
said but what is the particular side
projects that she's trying to gain
skills in are essentially like her
version of a release so like let's say
meditation for a lot of people it helps
calm them bring their stress down
whatever refocus on what they need to do
for some people that painting but what
if she's finding that she's getting a
lot of enjoyment out of that and like
that become her meditation so now she
has these two things that she's clearly
passionate about how would you guess it
then that is an awesome question and
hiding in the question is the answer so
here's how I would look at it if you
need to meditate in order to achieve
whatever your mission is then you
meditate exactly as much as you need to
to be more efficient at accomplishing
your goals if you can make your form of
meditation something that you also love
that's so awesome right so likely
my passion is filmmaking storytelling
fiction all of that and I can recognize
now that that is lined up with my goals
so once it's in line with your goal do
it and by the way the biggest goal in
your life should be something that you
love beyond measure
like I everyday I love what we're doing
now that does not mean in the micro
there aren't things I absolutely despise
contracts are pain in my ass and right
now I'm going through a contract that it
is so
dull and uninteresting I can and like
this is becoming almost comical now do
you know what percentage of my time it's
a nun contract mostly your morning times
like I saw before this I was like it's
not a better actually be reading
those contracts yeah because it's like
every day there's a good new one that I
don't like you need to read is getting
like laugher cry funny now where I'll
finish like the other day I finish - I
was so like a loud in myself and then
Amanda was like uh we just had another
one come in and I was like is this real
life well uh we're trying to do that and
that's the thing it is important and
that's why that we have to do them but
so yeah anyway you have to do the things
align of you goals whether they are
painful whether they are fun but your
main thing should be something that you
would love doing even if you were
failing
I would love pulling people out of the
matrix even if I fail miserably like the
process of trying to get good at that is
so meaningful to me and so exciting and
I get giddy at some of the skills that I
need to do it so it's like it's not like
a painful thing that should be like just
amazing so you should be when you have
to give up one of your other passions is
because it's like God do I have so much
fun doing this or so much fun doing that
it's not like well this is going to be
tedious but it's somehow more important
know like your mission the thing you
decide is your mission should be
something that sets you on fire and
makes you feel alive right and I also
want to go back to the fact that for you
those things eventually aligned so you
might be giving it up for now and you
never know when it's going to come in
handy later down the line and by the way
so let's talk about fiction the thing
that I love so much I'm a God beyond
measure I tried to read fiction I
actually didn't have any intention of
giving it up but every time when I was
not vacation every time when I wasn't on
vacation I would pick up a fiction book
of voice in my head would scream one
because remember I loved reading
nonfiction I loved it so it was
screaming in my head you could go love
reading nonfiction right now and it
would move you
forward whereas the other one you would
love doing it but it wouldn't move you
forward and that's how I'm always
looking at things is it isn't me
choosing between something heinous that
I'm because remember I did for depending
on sort of what part of the story I want
people to focus on either six or eight
and a half years at the the six year
mark I realized I was not willing to do
it without a finite hard stop but it
ended up taking 18 half years but at the
at year six of chasing money I realized
I'm never doing this again and so that
was the last time in my life where I
didn't make the demand that I made a
living doing something that also made me
feel alive so simply slip that demand in
and now you're not choosing between
something that isn't fun and something
that is fun you're choosing between
something that you love and something
else that you love and when it's now
like this but this thing drains me at
like whatever the hour 60 mark for my
week well then awesome to keep doing it
and feel alive and be passionate and
attack it as hard as you need to then go
do that other thing if it's painting
hiking that's awesome it's actually
serving your goals you know that about
yourself
you've looked inward did you see the
truth of it and do it 100%
that's like vacation here's the thing I
work a stupid number of hours every week
that is because I'm having a
blast doing what I'm doing my goals are
really important to me and so it fills
me with a sense of fulfillment to be
doing it but because I play as hard as I
play I don't like when I want to take a
vacation I take a vacation like I don't
there isn't even a flicker of guilt and
if I have a flicker of guilt it's
because I know that I haven't done all
the things that I want for my own sake
to do on the other side all right
hopefully that helps out Laila alright
so the next one comes from Adam do
Guardi what separates the doers from the
do not those stuck in their limiting
beliefs and the matrix and those who are
free trying to gain leverage on myself
to think to push through being
comfortable and get free yeah I mean
this this comes down to identity it
comes down to what people decide
they want it comes down to the demands
that people are willing to make
themselves and it comes down to like
like what do you want to be true in your
life so what I mean by that I mentioned
this earlier so I think it is an a
completely valid life choice to be
morbidly obese to eat whatever you want
and to accept this is going to limit my
lifespan but I make that choice
consciously and I'm going to do that I
think that's completely valid the choice
that doesn't make any sense to me is the
one where you're morbidly obese you feel
guilty when you eat food you don't feel
good on a daily basis you have aches and
pains and all of that you want to live a
longer healthier life span and you know
that the food is causing you a problem
it's you can even articulate this is
like a drug addiction but you don't do
anything to solve the problem that is
maddening to me that drives me
nuts in a way that I cannot tell you but
I'm not judging them for the state of
their body I'm saying you have a goal
and you're living in congruently to that
goal like that's madness and so when
your own life doesn't bring you
fulfillment and happiness like what are
you doing
it's one thing when you're lost and like
you don't understand it's another one
you can articulate I'm doing all
this myself I'm doing it to myself in
this way and yet I recognize what I'm
struggling with is an addiction and I
choose to do nothing about it that winds
me up so that like if if what you want
for your life is a stress-free life that
is perfectly valid don't don't force
yourself to like push and pursue and
strive like know that to be in alignment
with what I want for my life I need to
stress realize fantastic don't chase
money let's start there bring your like
universe cut it down to the quick don't
have children because that is a super
high demand in your time and nature is
going to make sure that you feel just
like this absolute compulsion to care
for them to do for them to build an
amazing life for them so there are just
certain choices that I would say if what
you want is a stress-free life that
you shouldn't do but that's an
absolutely valid choice so people have
to decide what they want I have no
interest in this recipe life
what I have an interest in is playing on
the world stage all the things I've
already talked about so I live in
accordance with that and it brings me a
tremendous amount of fulfillment
excitement my life is very exciting to
me my future is very compelling to me so
you just need to really figure out what
you want your life to be like and then
acted in accordance with it without
judgement by the way key words without
judgment correct all right
so this last question I guess because
we're coming up on the hour comes from
Shahani I'm combining my passion for
baking and my compassion for others by
starting a dessert subscription box
advice on getting it out there to
influencers and organizations around
mental health and suicide awareness I
know you are into mindset and would love
your thoughts on the idea I'm not I'm
not going to give her an answer she
likes so I was so with her can we
pretend she didn't say mental health so
here's here's the problem
food is probably the thing most I'm
going to set aside that something that
you have like a neurological disorder in
your genetics that's very scannable and
we can see hey based on this almost all
of mental illness is epigenetic meaning
that it's a reaction to your environment
now the biggest influencer on your
environment is what you eat so man if
you had said anything because a bowl of
ice cream brings people joy awesome
desserts a rat I am so glad they exist
if anyone ever tried to legislate them
out of my life I would be pissed I
believe people should be in they should
get to decide what they eat now here's
the bad news I think that there's a
tremendous influence on high sugar foods
which are traditional in desserts and
it's disruption of the microbiome
disrupting the microbiome disrupts the
production of serotonin serotonin plays
massively certainly into depression
probably anxiety as well so now you're
disrupting neurotransmitters with
desserts o s I feel bad
because it is only because she said
mental health and I'm like I don't know
that you want to push dessert
specifically if what you're really
worried about is mental health so that's
my answer for getting it out there to
mental health it's probably a bad idea
now getting it out there to help cheer
people up they've had a bad day they
want like that surprise dessert which i
think is awesome and totally valid
wonderful that is identifying
influencers who people listen to for
that thing so getting out there to
foodies getting out there to people that
have a voice in that community where
people want to create all this amazing
stuff and and so they have a voice in
that community now this is where it
comes in having an amazing product is
critical your desserts really need to
stop people in their tracks they don't
need to be as good as everything else
because there's a lot of noise in the
food space they need to be better and so
there needs to be something about your
dessert that just is going to stop
people in their tracks make them take
notice because people in that space
they're going to be getting a lot of
stuff from a lot of people and you've
got to ask why does mine stand out and
I'm going to guess that her part of the
reason that she is or part of the thing
she's trying to leverage to stand out is
the mental health in the very in
congruous and then go back to my earlier
statement so you need something in and
of the product itself that speaks to
that so there you have it
alright well with that you ended right
at 11:00 on the dot
so getting better this is it but if the
speed added any value to your life today
be sure to share it we're always looking
to grow especially within our community
because that's pretty much how we will
build this to you yes indeed yeah so
thank you guys so much for joining us we
love doing these we don't take a single
person and a single question for granted
for those of you that submit high
vulnerability questions thank you thank
you thank you absolutely amazing we love
it the community definitely egg is to
hear that they're not alone and then B
hopefully gets an answer that's usable
in their life so thank you guys so much
for that this is a weekly show so if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
you